raised with regard to the action of antipsychotic drugs on the
negative symptoms of schizophrenia, which, according to a
number of investigators (Johnstone et al., 1978; Andreasen
and Olsen, 1982; Bilder et al., 1985; McKenna et al., 1989;
Meltzer and Zureick, 1989), are closely associated with cognitive abnormalities and which, like cognitive deficits, do not
show consistent improvement with presently available drug
treatments (Moller, 1993; Lindenmayer, 1995). Furthermore,
D1-specific drugs have been reported to affect the negative
symptoms without having any significant influence on the
positive symptoms of the disease (Davidson, et al., 1990;
De Boer, 1995; Karle et al., 1995). Altogether, these findings
suggest that, although the ability to down-regulate cortical
D1 receptors may not be a unique feature of antipsychotic
drugs, but rather an effect associated with D2 antagonism,
this ability is nevertheless common to all presently effective
antipsychotic agents and so may have important implications
for their therapeutic effects. In evaluating the regulatory
actions of antipsychotic treatments, investigators should
therefore give greater consideration to changes in prefrontal
cortical D1 receptors, and future antipsychotic treatments
might be designed to provide optimal stimulation of cortical
D1 sites as well as to antagonize D2 receptors.
