blocked ascl1a translation, as revealed by anti-Myc western blot
analysis of protein extracts from embryos injected with mRNA
encoding an Ascl1a-Myc fusion protein (Fig. 1B). Injection of the
acsl1a MO into wild-type embryos led to a complete loss of
adenohypophyseal prolactin (prl, 93% affected, n=58) and pomc
(86% affected, n=48) expression, a phenotype indistinguishable from
that of pia mutants (Fig. 1C-H). Furthermore, we were able to rescue
prl and pomc expression in pia mutants upon injection of BAC DNA
containing the ascl1a gene (Fig. 1I-K; n=7; and data not shown).
Finally, to investigate the severity of the piat25215 mutation, we
studied the effect of ascl1a overexpression on neurogenesis in the
neural plate of zebrafish embryos. Although injection of mRNA
encoding wild-type ascl1a had no effect (data not shown), injection
of mRNA encoding a Ascl1a-VP16 fusion protein (0.6 ng/ l) led to
a massive increase in the number of elavl3-positive neural precursor
cells (Fig. 1M; 78/78) (compare with Bae et al., 2005; Kim et al.,
1997). By contrast, the corresponding fusion between the VP16
transactivating domain and the truncated part of Ascl1a encoded by
the piat25215 allele was completely ineffective, even when injected at
60-fold higher molarity (12 ng/ l) (Fig. 1N; 0/42). In summary,
these data indicate that the pituitary phenotype of pia mutants is
caused by a null mutation in the zebrafish achaete scute homologue
acsl1a.
