Summary. The purpose of this study was to determine
structural and immunocytochemical changes taking
place during the day and at night in developing sheep
pineal gland under natural non-stimulatory photoperiods
(summer solstice). Additionally, the diurnal cycle of
plasma melatonin levels was charted and differences
between diurnal and nocturnal pineal melatonin
concentrations were analyzed. 36 ewes of three different
ages were examined: infants (1-6 months old), pubertal
and early fertile age (9-24 months old) and adults (36-60
months old). Plasma and pineal gland melatonin levels
were higher in pubertal sheep than in infants or adults.
Pubertal sheep pineal glands were also heavier,
contained a larger number of pinealocytes and interstitial
cells and displayed more evident innervation and
vascularisation than infants or adults. There was no
difference in the number of pinealocytes and interstitial
cells between animals killed during daylight or at night.
Gland weight, pinealocyte nuclear profile areas and
plasma melatonin concentrations were all significantly
higher at night than during the day.

Key words: Pineal gland, Sheep, Melatonin, Postnatal
development, Long photoperiod
